Codey: Hello, farmers, and welcome to another episode of The Harvest Season Bug Edition.
Codey: My name is Cody.
Kevin: My name is Kevin.
Codey: And we are here today to talk about bugs.
Kevin: You should mix it up and sit like a different bug every time, like lightning bugs.
Codey: Oh, oh, we didn't.
Codey: Gosh, what did I?
Codey: I don't remember what I said last time.
Kevin: It's fine.
Codey: Y'all, it's been a wild ride.
Codey: Um
Kevin: Let's not, everyone knows it's summer.
Kevin: These are the, the, the Twilight Zone episodes in, in a place where time has no meaning, even more than normal.
Codey: Yep.
Codey: It, it's, It's bug month, y'all.
Codey: Um, yeah, so this is the 2nd installment of Bug Month, so the 1st episode should come out last week.
Codey: Um, and then this episode we're talking about uh, more bugs and another bug themed game.
Codey: So today's game is budgies bug shop, um, which Kevin I have played. And, um, we're going to talk about that.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Uh, and I'm gonna have my little entomology corner where I talk about, um, some bug stuff and kind of take you through more bug diversity.
Codey: Uh, but first, uh, Kev, have you, do you have anything to say, any fun things?
Codey: Have you seen any cool movies later?
Kevin: Um, yeah, I've seen a few.
Kevin: I had some family over recently.
Kevin: Watch a couple movies.
Codey: Oh?
Kevin: Um, uh, yeah, I was just busy.
Kevin: no big deal.
Kevin: What was it?
Kevin: Oh, Roger Tale Mary.
Kevin: I finally saw Project Kale Mary.
Codey: Oh, cool.
Codey: I still haven't seen that.
Kevin: It's very good.
Codey: Is it good?
Kevin: Um, yeah.
Codey: Is it streaming now?
Kevin: It is on Amazon Prime.
Kevin: I've done nowhere else, but on Amazon Prime.
Kevin: Nothing else.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, I don't know where it else, but it's great.
Kevin: Um, it's one of those movies where there's, well, essentially, 2 maybe 3 characters.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, um, it's really good.
Kevin: Um, I won't go into too much detail because there's, are you familiar with the premise at all?
Codey: Not really, and it is kind of still new.
Codey: I don't, I think we're uh, not out of spoiler territory yet, so we should probably respect.
Kevin: Yeah, well.
Codey: Respect the spoilers, but...
Kevin: Sure.
Kevin: Well, I'll give the premise at least.
Codey: Okay.
Kevin: Um, it's at a near-ish future or whatever.
Kevin: Um, where there is this phenomenon where not just the sun, but stars across the system are going out.
Kevin: They're going dark.
Codey: Oh, dang, okay.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, And uh, so the issue is how how do we stop that?
Kevin: Uh, but they, I missed part of the beginning, but I believe they basically they detected one star that does not go out.
Kevin: And so the mission is, let's go to that star, figure out what happened there so we can save our son.
Kevin: Um, Yeah, exactly.
Codey: Oh my gosh, so it's a so it's a Hail Mary.
Codey: Um, I get it.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Interesting.
Kevin: Um, yeah, um, that is the very, very initial premise, but the, what goes on beyond that, there's a lot more going on past that.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Oh, yeah, I won't go DJ.
Kevin: I'll say it stars Ryan Gosling in a fantastic performance.
Kevin: Um, there is a, well, a 2nd character.
Kevin: Actually, I don't know the actor's name, but, um, they also did a fantastic performance.
Kevin: Um, It is not Matt Damon.
Codey: Is it Matt Damon?
Codey: Okay, because NASA has spent NASA has spent a lot of money with Matt Damon in space.
Kevin: Oh, I don't think so.
Kevin: I would be amazed if it were.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: I guess.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Kevin: I would be I would be shocked if ever Matt Damon.
Kevin: lets say that.
Kevin: And you watch the, if you ever get around to watching the movie, just, just imagine, you'll know the 2nd character and just imagine.
Codey: Okay.
Kevin: Um...
Kevin: Okay, so that was a good movie.
Kevin: Um, let's see.
Kevin: there's another one.
Kevin: Oh, what was it?
Kevin: Um, yeah, no, I plum lost it.
Kevin: Um, I thought I had it.
Kevin: I won't nope.
Kevin: Oh, no, it was Superman, but I already watched that and talked about it.
Kevin: Superman from last year.
Kevin: That was a good movie.
Kevin: I liked it.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Uh, no, I think that's, that's the only, wait, did I talk about the sheep?
Kevin: No I don't think I have.
Kevin: I watched the sheep detectives.
Kevin: Um, also, the sheep detectives.
Codey: The the what?
Kevin: Okay.
Codey: What is that?
Kevin: Um, it is, it's one, it's, what it says.
Kevin: Um, there is a flock of sheep.
Kevin: The shepherd is murdered, and the sheep go about solving the mystery as to who murdered their, uh, their, uh, shepherd.
Codey: Is...
Kevin: Wait, I did talk.
Codey: Is this animated?
Kevin: Uh, no.
Codey: Is this animated by like the Wallace and Gromit people?
Codey: Okay.
Kevin: I'm thinking, I'm thinking now, wait, I did talk to this about Al because we had a discussion.
Kevin: But, uh, no, no, no, no.
Kevin: Okay, ignoring this.
Kevin: ignore.
Kevin: to myself now.
Kevin: Okay.
Kevin: Uh, it is not animated.
Kevin: Well, it is live action as in Disney live action because there are real sheep in the movie, but they have animated sheep because they're cheap talk amongst themselves, but they do not talk to people.
Codey: Okay.
Kevin: Um, but there is a whole little village town of uh, human characters as well.
Kevin: Um, and so it is very much a whodunit.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, It is a fantastic movie actually, strangely very emotional at times.
Codey: Okay.
Kevin: Um, like it's, it sounds silly and almost like a, you know, sort of a kid's movie premise.
Kevin: And it kind of is because it's, it's, it's very family friendly and saccharine, but it just, it's really well done.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, I, I had emotions watching little CGI sheep talking about deep meaning questions like the nature of death in life.
Codey: Oh my gosh.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Um.
Kevin: Yeah, so fantastic.
Kevin: Um, the humans are fun.
Kevin: The, the, people have fantastic personalities.
Kevin: Um, it's actually an ensemble cast.
Kevin: I don't remember them all, but like, uh, Patrick Stewart is one of the sheep, for instance, um, yeah.
Codey: Oh my gosh, okay.
Kevin: Yeah, exactly.
Kevin: Um, they went all out.
Kevin: Um, the, the one human character who definitely stands out is actually the shepherd who passed away, played by one Hugh Jackman.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Oh my gosh.
Kevin: Um, yeah.
Kevin: And, uh, obviously as the murder victim and dying pretty early on into the film.
Kevin: He has a somewhat limited role, but his presence is pretty strong and he's Hugh Jackman, so he's, you know, incredibly charismatic and likeable and understandable why the sheep want to solve his murder.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Probably acted the crap out of it, so.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, it's great.
Kevin: Um, yeah.
Kevin: So, yeah, the sheep detective is is is fantastic.
Kevin: Like as a mystery movie, like it's, it's, okay, it's not, it's not a knives out.
Codey: Okay.
Kevin: It's not doing anything crazy, no?
Kevin: Uh, I, like, I call about who the, the, well, it was, like, pretty early on, because, you know, it just does all the tropes, and it kind of calls out the tropes, like, literally, because the, the thing is, uh, Hugh Jackman's character, literally, like, reads to the sheep, like, every night mystery novels, which is why.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Hmm.
Codey: Oh my gosh.
Kevin: Yeah. Which is, yeah.
Codey: So they're like, they're like, this is a great, a great thing to like.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, we know what to do.
Codey: The great mystery.
Kevin: We, yeah, we know the rules.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Let's solve this.
Kevin: Um, Exactly.
Codey: All of our training has prepared us for this moment.
Kevin: Exactly.
Kevin: Um, so yeah, uh, so, so that they go by and and so yeah, the mystery's fine, but just the, the, again, like the sheep, you know, they're not, you know, it's not Disney Bambi type characters.
Kevin: They're they're cheapest and and maintain all those qualities.
Kevin: So, um, it's very entertaining, um, very charming, very lovely sort of movie.
Kevin: Um, easy, easy thumbs up.
Kevin: I haven't watched too many 2026 movies, to be frank, but those 2 are up there.
Kevin: Both Project Hail Mary and Sheep Detectives somehow in the same case.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: Well, I'll have to give the sheep detective.
Codey: Well, I mean, I was already going to give Project Helmarion a pass.
Codey: Like I was going to watch it, but I'll have to watch the other one too.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Yeah, good stuff.
Kevin: Oh, what about you?
Kevin: Anything you want to talk about or should we just dive into Bug World?
Codey: Um, gosh, have I watched anything?
Codey: I don't really feel like I've been watching movies much.
Codey: We've been in like packing mode and stuff.
Codey: So, um, I did re- redownload and ended up buying because it was going off of Game Pass, uh, power wash simulator, so I've been doing that.
Kevin: Sure, that's that's life.
Codey: Um, because I need that.
Kevin: Hmm.
Kevin: I need to get into that.
Kevin: I've never played it, but I've always wanted to.
Codey: It's, I think it's well worth it.
Kevin: Um.
Codey: So it's 25 bucks on Xbox Game Pass.
Codey: Um, I think it's well worth that money.
Codey: Like, I've put in a good amount of time into that.
Codey: And you don't even have, you don't have to do the 2nd one, like, right off the bat, like, the 1st one also holds up.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: So, um,
Kevin: Does the 1st one have the all the DLC, like the crazy DLC or is that in the 2nd one?
Codey: So the 1st one has like a bunch of DLC that have been, um, like they've added a bunch of extra content that, that each extra DLC thing like gives like 6 more things to clean.
Codey: Um, and I have, like, um, for free, I think it has like 8 different ones.
Codey: Um, there are paid DLC as well that I think are like $8 each and they have things like SpongeBob and Alice in Wonderland and like stuff like that.
Codey: So, and I think they actually just came out with a, um, oh, what's that Star Wars?
Kevin: Star Wars, yeah.
Codey: It's like, what's that star thing everyone likes?
Kevin: Yeah, what's that?
Kevin: What's that one thing about the star in the wars?
Codey: Um, yeah, so that, that, one of those just came out.
Kevin: Oh.
Codey: Um, so there's definitely a lot to do there.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: So if you just need a game that kind of lets you just mindlessly do thing, I highly recommend it.
Codey: So.
Kevin: I've got to get on, uh, I want that Final Fantasy 7.
Kevin: You'll see.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Clean up Midgar.
Kevin: Um.
Codey: Yep.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Um, but yeah, so that I, that's a nice little what we've been up to, uh, what, what we've been doing with our lives.
Codey: So we'll jump into Cody's entomology corner.
Codey: So this is, again, where I'm going to talk about some stuff.
Codey: Um, So before we jump into like going through diversity.
Codey: Kevin, do you have any itching, burning bug questions about bugs or bug adjacent things that you would like to ask about?
Kevin: Oh, I asked, wait, I asked one a while ago.
Kevin: Did you answer?
Kevin: I don't know if you did.
Codey: So I think, I think your, 1st of all, I got to find this threat.
Kevin: It was put in the thread.
Codey: I should have been doing this already.
Codey: Um, but I think your question was just why bugs?
Codey: If I remember...
Kevin: No, no, there was another, there was a genuine one.
Kevin: Um, I think it was conservation success stories.
Kevin: Come back stories.
Kevin: Do you know of any bug MX?
Codey: I feel like the monarch is kind of an in progress one.
Codey: Um...
Kevin: Ooh, that's exciting.
Codey: So that's something that people have, um, like we have gotten it fast enough, uh, talked about it soon enough where we actually have time to kind of reverse course.
Codey: So people were able to tell that there was an issue with monarchs.
Codey: And part of that, part of those declines, because they are so charismatic, like you, people, they were very, uh, it was very obvious that they were suddenly not as common anymore.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Um, and so, We were able to like kind of, kind of turn back the, the hand of time a little bit.
Codey: Um, and it was mostly just to preserve their wintering, other overwintering grounds, which is in Mexico, and then making sure that there is enough habitat elsewhere, um, specifically, uh, milk like milkweed.
Kevin: Dick.
Codey: Um, So, and I think we've, we're, it's, that's happened.
Kevin: Right, right.
Codey: Like, I think we've done a fairly good job of that.
Kevin: Awesome.
Codey: Um, it's still in, like, constantly in progress and also because we, now we know about this area in Mexico and that has been preserved for, um, these things.
Kevin: Sure.
Codey: There are some other issues.
Codey: Um, like, people want to log in that area, for example, um, so, like, but now, at least we've protected it before, because it would have sucked if, like, that had happened, and then we were like, wow, now there's really no one, no monarchs, right?
Kevin: Hmm.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: But it's been a really successful campaign of getting people to plant milkweed.
Codey: They're really charismatic.
Codey: Another one that's kind of coming up, um, is fireflies.
Codey: So a lot of folks are noticing there's fewer fireflies.
Codey: So there's some efforts to, um, kind of bring those back.
Codey: It's really hard with insects because there's not like a specific individual species.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: There, like, there is currently only one insect, um, on, um, check those before.
Codey: Um, it on the endangered species thing, which is uh, that is recognised by the United States, at least, the Endangered Species Act.
Codey: And it's, um, the Rusty Patched Bumblebee, which is Bombas Athenas, and that has been extirpated from much of its range across, um, uh, sorry, I'm still trying to like pull this up, um, across the United States, but it's still kind of in the middle, mid States.
Codey: So it's actually impacted some people's ability to do certain research.
Codey: So I, for example, set traps.
Codey: Like I just put a trap up and then walk away, but people can't do that anymore because they might collect this insect.
Codey: Um,
Codey: Let me see.
Codey: I'm trying to see if there's like a specific.
Kevin: That's all.
Codey: Oh, I guess there's also a grasshopper.
Codey: But the, the, um, Rusty Patch Bumblebee is kind of like another charismatic one.
Codey: So.
Kevin: Sure.
Codey: Um, I think just in general, it's the just the vibe of trying to preserve insects as a whole.
Kevin: Sure, that makes sense.
Kevin: I mean.
Codey: It's really great that that has really become a little bit more in the forefront.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Not only with bees, though it is really frustrating when, as an entomologist, when people are like, I'm like, yeah, we need to save the bees, and then they talk about the honeybee, because that is not native to North America.
Codey: And like we're talking about, say, our native pollinators that are, that often have like really intricate relationships with the flowers that they've co-evolved with, not like basically the chicken, which is that we, we say that the honeybee is basically like a chicken.
Codey: Um, because it's something that you farm.
Codey: It's something that we brought in to vantage.
Codey: Um, and it's so it's livestock, basically.
Codey: And if you were to say that you wanted to save birds, like songbirds, the endangered songbirds of North America, and you had a picture of a chicken, like that is the equivalent.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: That's the equivalent.
Codey: Dr. Lawrence Packer from in Canada as the person who came up with that analogy and we love it.
Kevin: It's strong.
Codey: Um, So, but yeah, I think there has been more of a move, like honeymoons are still important.
Codey: We still need them for agriculture, whatever, but I think there's been more of a move away from in such a gross and such a bad to kind of, okay, well, we need them.
Codey: Like they are important.
Codey: Uh, so.
Kevin: They are, as illustrated, by 2007's the B movie.
Codey: No.
Codey: Kevin's trying to get me.
Kevin: It does, in fact, tackle.
Codey: Kevin's trying to get me to um...
Kevin: Acknowledge the movie.
Codey: Yeah, acknowledge the B movie.
Codey: Uh, and also I've never watched it.
Codey: Like I have.
Kevin: Well, no joke.
Kevin: It does, in fact, tackle the topic of what happens when you don't have pollinators anymore.
Codey: That's true.
Codey: It's true.
Codey: Um, okay, so you asked that question, but you also asked which bug is most likely or already has taken over the world.
Codey: Um,
Kevin: I did know this one actually.
Codey: It was ants.
Kevin: It is ants, yeah.
Codey: There are so many ants.
Codey: Uh,
Kevin: It is their world and we are just living in it now.
Codey: Like, in your own backyard, there could be dozens of species of ants.
Codey: And they are just so effective at what they do.
Codey: They completely restructure their entire ecosystem.
Codey: So, like, if you have a certain ant species in an area, can completely change what other insect species you have because they might dominate certain resources that kind of like push out other insects.
Codey: There are also some ant species that have minimal impact on other species.
Codey: So it's not like, that's not like, oh, yeah, they're bad or anything like that.
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Codey: And often they are doing it.
Codey: They're doing good things, actually.
Codey: Um, for their environment, um, not just like, uh, pushing things out.
Codey: Like they might actually bring things in as well.
Codey: Okay, I was going to go on a bit of a tirade, but I'm not going to about something completely unrelated, but I will talk about that in a different episode because I will make a note to mention that.
Kevin: It.
Kevin: Okay.
Kevin: Well, I will say that ants don't just, you know, affect the other insects there.
Codey: Um,
Kevin: They can have an impact on your life too.
Kevin: Um, so one uh, uh, one of my favourite little incidents in my current apartment complex.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: Oh no.
Kevin: Oh, yeah.
Kevin: Um, I live on the ground floor.
Kevin: Um, uh, and there are ants here in southern Georgia as as well as everywhere else in the world, basically.
Kevin: Um, and one time we had, um, a colony of ants, uh, starting to set a nest on our curtains.
Kevin: Um, that was, that was wild.
Codey: Yep.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Thankfully, you know, we got out of it pretty free, but I'm I'm sorry, Cody, we we're not okay with the colony of ants living on our curtains, so.
Codey: That, you know, I don't blame you.
Codey: I'm always, it's so funny.
Kevin: So we.
Codey: People are always like, oh, I'm sorry, but like, I'm sorry I had to get rid of this bug that was a pest in my in my home and I'm like, I get that.
Codey: Like, that's okay.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah, I'm like, there might have been a better solution, but you know, you had to act fast because our curtains are suddenly black.
Kevin: Um...
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Anyways, but yeah.
Codey: They do be taken over.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, uh, but going back to the other question, good, uh, good on the monarchs and the, and the, and the bees, um, the monarch butterfly, uh, and the fireflies.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, as a as a Mexican guy, obviously, like, yeah, monarch butterflies are cool.
Kevin: Um, but, um, I mean, I know they're all over the place too, but, um, but fireflies, man, fireflies are so cool.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, I didn't live in an area of fireflies until I came to Atlanta.
Kevin: Um, and man, they really are just kind of me.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Oh yeah.
Codey: Yeah, I, so I hadn't seen them until I moved to the East Coast.
Codey: So, There are fireflies on the west coast, but the ones, the species that exist on the west coast don't bioluminous.
Codey: So they don't light up.
Codey: It's the species that are on the, like, east of the Rocky Mountains.
Codey: Basically, they haven't made it over the Rocky Mountains.
Codey: The Rockies are just this great barrier that kind of divides a lot of ecological communities.
Codey: Um, the ones on the east side are the ones that actually like light up and do things.
Codey: And there are some that all light up at the same time or they almost like might do it in like a wave.
Codey: They are so cool and so charismatic and they are, they're larvae are predatory and will eat a lot of pest things and they're just really cool in general.
Codey: Um, and so it's another thing that like people fondly remember fireflies or catching fireflies, watching the fireflies, and now we're seeing that there are fewer of them and people are like, hmm, why is that?
Codey: And so that's another kind of really good indicator, positive experience that people can have that can show them like, hey, we need to protect these things.
Codey: Um, because you, remember how your parents used to say, like the whole backyard used to be lit up and now it's not.
Codey: Um, So, but we will, we will fix them.
Kevin: Oh man. You know what?
Kevin: I'll throw another question your way.
Kevin: You just reminded me.
Kevin: You play with bugs, I like, or like, what bugs did you play with as a gig?
Kevin: Because I feel like most kids at one point or other play with a bug here.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: Um, I, I don't think I have like a specific bug.
Codey: I definitely, I used to catch praying mantises and then I would feed them.
Codey: Um, I would then catch grasshoppers and feed them grasshoppers.
Codey: We used to catch ladybugs and give them to our neighbour lady, um, because she would put them on her strawberry bushes and then she would make a strawberry pie.
Codey: Um, I used to catch.
Kevin: Oh.
Codey: I used to take like a Coke bottle, a plastic Coke bottle and catch bees in it.
Codey: Um, and then kind of watch them fight, which in hindsight is not great.
Codey: Um,
Codey: Uh, I, I, my mom has this hilarious story of me as a kid where there were a bunch of ladybugs in my babysitter's yard and um, I thought one had flown up my nose and I was so worried like all day.
Codey: I'm like, mom, I can't get it out.
Codey: It's going to die.
Codey: Like, I don't want it to die in my nose.
Codey: Like, I, like, I don't want her to die in there.
Codey: Like, I want her to go and like live her life and like get out of my nose.
Codey: And my mom was like, there's not a lady bug in your nose.
Codey: I'm like, there really is.
Codey: And then and I wouldn't go to sleep. And she finally was just like, okay, fine.
Codey: And she like plugged one side of my nose or whatever because whatever side it was and had me blow as hard as I possibly could. And out popped a, unfortunately dead, ladybug at that point.
Kevin: Wait, oh, it actually was up there?
Codey: There was, there was a dead lady bug up there.
Kevin: Oh my goodness.
Codey: Um.
Kevin: Woo hoo!
Codey: Yeah, like, if, I don't know.
Codey: If it, it would have come out eventually, it's fine, but, uh, yeah.
Codey: And she was, she was talking about how, how worried I was for the ladybug's sake, basically.
Codey: Um, so yeah, I always liked them.
Codey: I always caught them as a kid.
Codey: I was never really that afraid of them, but I always thought I was going to like save the wolves.
Codey: I thought I was going to work with mammals.
Codey: And so I went to school to study mammals and got my undergraduate degree in fisheries and wildlife.
Codey: And then during all of that.
Codey: I got a technician position working on a B project. And I was like, wait a minute.
Codey: I actually love this.
Codey: Like this is actually great.
Codey: And my mom was like, yeah, you were always playing with bugs.
Codey: Um, And so it was just kind of like a, I hadn't realised that this could be a career.
Codey: Um, and I can still fall back on like just general wildlife biology, but I just really like bugs and I think they're so important.
Codey: And so not only misunderstood, but also just like people don't even recognise how important they are to their environment or how diverse they are or whatever.
Codey: So, um, I'm here to to yap at people about books.
Codey: Um, and then it's also really fun as an entomologist.
Codey: I actually, one of our friends, I want to say it was Name.
Codey: Ooh, I might be wrong.
Codey: Um, But someone like texted me the other day and was like, hey, Cody, what bug is this?
Codey: And, you know, I could tell immediately.
Codey: Um, And I was just like, oh, it's this.
Codey: But I'm pretty sure it's this, but let me check.
Codey: And I was right.
Codey: But it was just like off the cuff, like gut reaction and like people are just like, oh, you're so cool.
Codey: Like, I was like, I mean, yeah, but it's also just like really cool.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: To just, I don't know, bugs are cool.
Codey: Like, I think, and I think it, like, people come to me, and it's so funny, because people are always like, I'm so sorry to bother you, like, but could you tell me what this is?
Codey: Or, and it's just like, please bother me, please.
Codey: Like, you could bother me every single day with pictures of bugs.
Codey: And I would tell you, and I would get so excited every single time, like, there's never been a moment when someone has told me, hey, can you know, can you tell me what this is? And I haven't been excited.
Codey: I said that and then I immediately was like, mm, that's not right.
Codey: The only time I don't, I'm not excited.
Codey: is when I then see the photo and it's a Bigfoot photo of a black blur.
Codey: And I'm like, I can't even tell you if this is a living organism, let alone...
Codey: Like folks, if you want, uh, someone, and this isn't just for bugs.
Codey: Like, this is also for birds, like, whatever, if you want your biology friends to identify something for you, the picture has got to be as best as you're able clear and in focus.
Codey: And you aren't moving and they aren't moving and as close as you can get, like, I, I'm sorry, you can't give me a picture of a football field and then ask me to identify the bug on the 10 yard line. Like, I'm not, but, Yeah, so I mean, sometimes I can't.
Codey: Sometimes I'm like, okay, those are not a great photo, but it's this.
Codey: I know what it is.
Codey: Some things you can still tell, but for the most part, no.
Kevin: Oh, that's awesome.
Kevin: Um.
Codey: It's really fun.
Codey: Well, and then whenever we have an in-person, I haven't seen you in person at any event yet, but uh, when we have like in-person Pokemon events, with our friend group.
Codey: Um, We always, if we're like walking around at like a park or something, I will eventually find like a bug and then it's like everyone kind of crowds around me and I'm telling like our friend group, oh, here's the cicada and here's what it does and here's like I'm like showing it to everyone.
Codey: And then suddenly I look up and there's like 30 other people watching and like trying to get a good look because it's usually like Pokemon Go Fest or whatever.
Codey: And I'm all excited about this bug and I'm just like, oh, do you guys want to see it?
Codey: Oh, so it's really funny.
Codey: But I really enjoy it.
Kevin: Oh, that's awesome.
Codey: Um, I wish someone would pay me for it.
Codey: Maybe one day.
Codey: It's just not a great time right now for that, but it's all good.
Kevin: Oh.
Kevin: Well, it's, it's not, uh, if it's any condolence, it's not a great time for a lot of things.
Codey: Correct.
Codey: And sometimes you just have to be like, okay, like we're just gonna.
Kevin: Uh, yeah, uh.
Codey: We're just gonna move on with our boys.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: We should probably get into this diversity stuff and then talk about Budgie's bug shop.
Codey: Um, So how this works, Kev, uh, and and folks, is I'm gonna kind of go through the diversity of bugs.
Codey: So last time, I talked about where insects are within the like larger group of arthropods and how they're really, they're closely, they're related to things like shellfish, crustaceans, um, like spiders, millipedes, but then within that, there's hexapods, hexapoda, so 6 legs, um, and and insects are within that.
Codey: along with some other groups.
Codey: And within insects, there are those who, uh, are not do not have wings, which I talked about.
Codey: And then today we're going to start getting into the winged insects.
Codey: So everything else, all other bugs from here on out are within the group tarragoda, which literally just means winged.
Codey: Um, So these insects have wings at or evolved from groups that had wings at some stage.
Codey: Some insects lose them or might drop their wings, but at some point in their life stage, they had wings or something similar to a wing.
Codey: Um, that sound good, Kev?
Codey: you have any questions or are you good just for me to just yap on?
Kevin: Uh, nope, nap on.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: So within, uh, the winged episode, insects, there are, um, uh, 3 groups, and I'm going to cover 2 of them today.
Codey: So one of those groups is called Paleoptera, or Ancient Wing.
Codey: Um, and so the uh, Paleoptera, like this group is basically was put together initially by scientists, um, because they thought that they didn't fold their wings.
Codey: So they didn't like put their wings back against their body.
Codey: They either held them out or held them back behind their body, but they never put it against their body, like laid it down flat.
Codey: Um, but that actually isn't really a trait.
Codey: That's not really a thing about...
Codey: And so this group of quote unquote Paleoptera is basically just now, uh, considered an assemblage or a grouping of everything that is not Neoptera.
Codey: So it's like, basically just a, uh, it's the only reason it's different is it's only, um, distinguishing feature is that it's not this other thing.
Codey: Um, and this is an example of what's called a waste basket taxon or a junk taxon, a junk group.
Codey: So this is like, you know, you have things that are super obvious and super like, like this is clearly different from this.
Codey: This is clearly different from this, and all of these things we're just going to put in one group because we don't know.
Kevin: Oh man, that's some Aristotle level of Greek classification.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Um, a lot of these, uh, groups were when they were 1st, um, kind of put in an order by, by, uh, Carl Linnaeus, however you want to say it, um, they were put together based on like just what they look like, just morphology.
Codey: And that works for some things, but doesn't work for everything because some things, I mean, as we know, everything returns to crab, right?
Kevin: Yeah, the ultimate life form.
Codey: Like, there's a certain life, like, strategy life form, whatever you want to say, that is optimal or is well adapted for a lot of different things.
Codey: So, uh, even if they, some groups have had diverged and were separate things, they might come to kind of almost like return to being similar because they do similar things.
Codey: They evolved similar things under similar, um, like in similar environments.
Codey: And so just looking at something physically and trying to group it doesn't always work.
Codey: Um, so that's what this group is.
Codey: Um, and there are a handful of orders in this.
Codey: So we're going to go through the orders of Paleoptera or Ancient Wing.
Codey: So the 1st one is Odonata, which is the dragonflies in the town, and these are also in no particular order.
Codey: Um, Odonada, which are the dragonflies and the damsel flies.
Codey: Um, so.
Kevin: Those bit me once.
Codey: Really?
Kevin: Oh yeah, I've gotten bitten by a dragonfly.
Codey: Like the nymph or the adult?
Kevin: No, the adult.
Codey: Oh, that's so wild.
Kevin: Yeah, uh, I don't remember, but it got me in.
Codey: How?
Codey: Okay.
Kevin: Yeah, that was smart.
Codey: Dude, they are so smart.
Codey: So, um.
Codey: Dragonflies themselves are the most efficient aerial predators of the animal kingdom.
Codey: So they have like a 90% success rate of hunting of like catching and they catch things like they are they are hunting other flying insects.
Codey: So they are, they do these incredible aerial manoeuvres.
Kevin: That's insane.
Codey: Each of their wings.
Codey: So they have 4 wings.
Codey: Each wing has its own musculature, and so they are able to manipulate each of their wings independently.
Codey: Um, allowing for these crazy, like, feats of, of flight, ridiculous.
Kevin: That's also insane.
Codey: Um, I'll talk more about that in a second, but I wanted to say, uh, the difference between dragonflies and damsel flies.
Codey: So dragonflies are more what we call robust, so it's pretty stocky.
Codey: And they hold their wings out at rest.
Codey: So imagine a dragonfly if you can.
Codey: Their wings are like out, away from their body.
Codey: Um, and kind of make their silhouette, uh, kind of a T shape because their wings are out.
Codey: Damsel flies are what we call gray isle or thin.
Codey: Um, and they hold their wings behind them at rest.
Codey: So the wings actually go back behind their body.
Codey: Um, and they're really cute.
Codey: Uh, I actually, some one of my favourite species, uh, with an Odenata is a damsel fly.
Codey: Um, I'm going to pull it up for you, and then you can ooen all over it.
Codey: Um, for people to have to look at later.
Codey: I mean, I'm just going to pull it up on a naturalist.
Codey: Again, folks, use eye naturalists.
Codey: I also went over the things that I use, um, in the last episode, uh, the things I use for insect identification and looking at bugs, uh, in your area.
Codey: It's very fun.
Codey: I love eye naturalist.
Codey: Okay, there it is.
Codey: Ebony Jewel Wing.
Codey: Do you see that?
Kevin: Oh, look at that.
Kevin: That's so cool looking.
Kevin: That's a look like green.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Wow.
Codey: So they are this beautiful emerald colour, but they're called ebony jewel wings because their wings, I think it's just the males, but their wings are black.
Codey: So they have these black wings and these beautiful emerald, blue, shimmering like body.
Codey: Um, they are so cute.
Codey: I love them.
Codey: Um, one of my favourite hikes that I go on every year.
Kevin: Yeah that's a good one.
Codey: I go on because I know that these are in that area.
Codey: Um, dragonflies themselves inspire a ton of innovations.
Kevin: That's on.
Codey: So I put 2 links in here that folks can look at, but I'll just mention them briefly.
Codey: So there's a study that shows that dragonflies can see colours that humans can't, and it's something that, um, it's a deeper, uh, red light, uh, image, and it is something that they're actually going to try and, um, change medicine and, like, have a, some innovations, um, with being able to see and, like, help people see, I think.
Codey: Um, for medical use.
Codey: I'm trying to see the exact optogenetics.
Codey: Um, it uses light sensitive proteins to control and study cells.
Codey: Um, oh, no, sorry.
Codey: So it's going to be used in like in protein stuff.
Codey: But that's really cool.
Codey: So that's medicine.
Codey: So they're even just their eyes can will, uh, is inspiring, um, innovative innovations in, like, uh, medicine.
Codey: But then their wings.
Codey: There's this lovely article on entomology today, which is a, um, newsletter thing that, uh, I, people should totally, um, subscribe to.
Codey: I actually will have an article coming out in entomology today fairly soon.
Kevin: Oh, yo.
Codey: About neurodiversity.
Codey: Um, and so, uh, but there's this article about how um, dragonfly wings are thinner than a human hair, but they're highly durable.
Codey: They have antimicrobial, water resistant, and anti-reflective properties, and there's this image on it that I love that kind of talks about, um, the properties of the wings and what different things they could do.
Codey: And so there's like differential light absorption.
Codey: So the wings actually absorb different lights.
Codey: They are hydrophobic, so they will water can't get through them.
Codey: They have really sensorized veins.
Codey: So, a lot of insect veins.
Codey: The reasoning to have veins on your wings is to provide a rigid structure for your wing so that it doesn't just like crumple like a like a, uh, plastic bag in the wind, right?
Codey: Like you need some type of structure holding it together.
Codey: But they also have, like, sensory organs on that, like little sensilla, um, like hairs that can sense things that can help them kind of do that quick change, um, in in flight.
Codey: Uh, they have, they just have so many, um, different things.
Kevin: Meh.
Kevin: It's kind unfair.
Codey: And so this is all inspiring.
Kevin: Like.
Kevin: Can't even keep all our teeth, man.
Codey: So this is.
Codey: Yeah, no, and they have all this stuff.
Codey: And so we, uh, they're also being used to, like, so to develop waterproof materials and to, um, develop new innovations in flight, uh, and like new drones and stuff like that.
Codey: And so, They're super cool.
Codey: Love dragonflies.
Codey: Um, Yeah.
Kevin: They're pretty red.
Codey: Uh, the next order is Ephemeroptera, which are the Mayflies.
Codey: So they're called ephemeroppera because they are ephemeral.
Codey: The word means lasting for a markedly brief time.
Codey: So Mayflies are so-called.
Codey: They are not true flies.
Codey: They're their own group, but they are so named because across most of their range, they really, um, come out in abundance in May.
Codey: And so, um, they just come out and these, all these droves, they have, they, um, pupate and and their adult stage comes out and they just are all looking for mates and laying eggs and all of that.
Codey: Um, they usually live.
Codey: They have an aquatic lifestyle as a larvae.
Codey: So the larva lives in the water.
Codey: Um, and is really important, is one of the 3 orders that are super, super important for uh, water quality indicators.
Codey: So it's this group and then Plecopter, which are the stone flies and and Tricopter, which is the caddis flies.
Codey: So those 3 groups, um, can be really effective, if you just survey it for those groups in a water street in like a stream or another type of, uh, water source.
Codey: Depending on the species that you find in that survey, it'll tell you how good of a quality water that is.
Codey: Um, way better than just like taking the pH would do.
Codey: Um, they also are one of the orders that, um, people that fish.
Codey: They will uh,
Codey: what's called a fly tie, or Thai fly, like, yeah, fly tie, where they will make a fly fishing.
Codey: It's called fly fishing because you are trying to mimic the behaviour of one of those, one of these flies to, and the fish are like coming up to eat these flies as the flies are like kind of touching the water and laying eggs in the water.
Codey: And so you make a hook that is that has all kinds of wraps, um, like different things and feathers.
Codey: They're trying to mimic Mayflies, basically.
Codey: Um, and fly tying is like its whole, a whole art on its own.
Codey: Some people make some really cool ties.
Codey: I've seen some that like, I'm like, oh, that's a cool Mayfly.
Codey: And then I'm like, wait a minute, that is not a that's not a bug.
Codey: Yeah, you got me.
Kevin: You got me.
Codey: Um, and while they can be annoying if you're trying to fish, um, or if you live next to a water source and it's May, and then suddenly all of your, for like 2 a week or something, like all of your buildings are covered in either Mayflies, stone flies are the same.
Codey: Um, and caddis flies are also the same.
Codey: Uh, it can be annoying, but they are really, uh, really important for upper terrific levels.
Codey: So, like birds eat them, fish eat them, like all of this other stuff.
Codey: So.
Codey: Pretty cool.
Codey: So those are the 2 uh, junk drawer attacks.
Codey: Those are the 2 ancient winged ones and then everything going forward.
Codey: Um, is in what's called kneoptera or new wing.
Codey: Um,
Codey: And within this, there's even a couple groups.
Codey: So, uh, the 1st one is called Polyneoptera, which is many wings.
Codey: I genuinely have no idea why it's called many wings, um, because they all have the same amount of wings.
Kevin: What are you talking?
Kevin: What are you talking about?
Kevin: There's the order of the one wing bugs fair.
Kevin: Well known.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: So, yeah, so there's the one wings and then there's the mini wings now.
Codey: Um, so polyneothra of any wings.
Codey: Many of these groups have what are called leathery 4 wings. They're called Tegmina.
Codey: Um, so if you think about like Amantis, for example, you don't really see like to, when they're flying or something, like they don't have 4 wings.
Codey: Um, they have adapted their 4 wing, their front wings to be or bigger wing, the ones that are normally larger.
Codey: They've adapted those to instead be like a leather covering, um, that kind of protects their other wings.
Codey: So a lot of group, a lot of, um, insect orders within this group of polineobra.
Codey: Um, have that as at some point in their life.
Codey: Um, So they all have like, you don't just have for, you don't look at it and they're like, oh, it has 4 wings.
Kevin: Oh, okay, okay, I know.
Codey: Like one of the pairs of wings has kind of been co-opted to be like a protecting protective shield.
Codey: That's kind of leathery.
Codey: So the 1st order is called zoraptura or angel insects.
Codey: Um, Zor means Z-O-R, means pure, and Aptera means no wings.
Codey: So these look like termites, and they don't, they don't have, like many of them either don't have wings or drop their wings.
Codey: It's only some forms that have wings.
Codey: So they basically looked at, like, previous entomologists, whoever named these things, looked at them and were like, oh, these are pure.
Codey: They do not have wings.
Codey: Um, and I think that purity is why they're called angel insects.
Codey: Um,
Kevin: Typically accurate insects.
Codey: I have a biblically accurate.
Codey: Um, this is not something that most people see.
Codey: I've never seen a Zeraptoran.
Codey: Um, they, they really just, I don't, like, honestly, if I were to flip a log, I probably think of the termite at 1st glance.
Kevin: It, it, uh, look, as, as the, an utter layman other than living in the south for a good part of my life, this, this, yeah, it just looks like a bug, a term, I, like, I, I could not tell you what that was looking at it.
Codey: Um,
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Yeah, so, but it's but they're different.
Codey: I don't remember exactly how, but they're different.
Codey: So.
Kevin: They have a little, they have a longer antennae, looking things and termites.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: No, not all.
Codey: Hashtag not all terminations.
Kevin: Well, yeah, hashtag no alternate.
Kevin: you know?
Kevin: Well, to the commonly, man.
Kevin: When I think termite, I think of a mandible thing, but anyways, um, yeah, I don't know.
Codey: Yep.
Codey: It sure looks like a termite.
Codey: Okay, the next order are Dermatura, which are the earwigs.
Kevin: Sure does.
Codey: Um, or eager wings.
Codey: Some there's all kinds of names that people have for these things.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Um, the name means skin wings.
Codey: And again, this is in relation to the fact that they have these leathery, uh, one of their, uh, pairs of wings is like this leathery, almost covering, and it literally just looks like they have like, it just looks like it's skin.
Codey: Like, it's the part of the back or something.
Kevin: It does.
Codey: And then the other, the true wings that they rarely use.
Codey: Um, kind of seem to come from under that.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Like they they seem to come from the skin.
Codey: I think that is why they're called that.
Codey: So these get a really bad rap because people look at it, they're like, 0 my gosh, it's pinch.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: pinch me.
Codey: And then, of course, the name, like earwaves.
Kevin: It.
Codey: Like everyone's like, oh, it's going to crawl on my ear.
Codey: It's not going to do that.
Kevin: Yeah, it's.
Codey: Like,
Kevin: Yeah, unfortunately, they get the the award for scariest looking bug that will absolutely not do anything to you in the slightest.
Codey: They, yeah, they're, it's not gonna, like, you really have to, and honestly, if you ever pick one up, if you ever see one of them that has those, um, the pincers on the back of the, um, of the abdomen, let it pinch you and realise that they are, it's nothing.
Codey: Like it doesn't really hurt.
Codey: There are other things that look innocent that will hurt you more.
Kevin: Oh yeah.
Codey: So, really, I mean, if you see one and you're like, ooh, like, take a moment, take a breath, be like, okay, yes, that was a that was a genuine reaction because this is a thing that looks weird, but I don't have to then act on that feeling and then kill this because I think it looks weird.
Codey: Um, So the, uh, you always have maternal care.
Codey: I don't I don't remember if I said that already.
Codey: Um, so the the females will actually take pretty good care of their young.
Codey: Um, and they are one of the few non-social insect species that do this.
Codey: So they don't, they live on their own independently.
Codey: Most of the most insects do.
Codey: Like they have, um, they don't live in like a colony or anything like that.
Codey: Some will kind of co-opt the same space together and they might live kind of socially that way, but they are not part, they're not like helping each other out.
Codey: They just kind of like live together.
Codey: Earbigs are on their own, on their own by themselves.
Codey: Um, So the mother pays really close attention to her eggs.
Codey: Um, she makes sure that they are warm.
Codey: She protects them.
Codey: She will defend them from predators.
Codey: She won't even leave, um, to eat until they're, they start getting, like, they hatch and then they kind of get bigger.
Codey: Um, she also cleans the eggs to protect them from fungi.
Codey: So a lot of earwigs will live in like damp wood, uh, in the leaf litter, that kind of thing, which fungus can grow pretty easily in those areas.
Codey: So she will like take care of it and make sure that the fungus is not going to grow on them.
Codey: Um, and I think that, uh, there was an article that I read that, or that I saw that was like, even if you swap out her batch of eggs for like ones that are not viable, she'll still take care of them for like a week because she still is like, maybe it'll hatch, maybe it'll hatch.
Codey: Um, So, yeah, people think that they're uh, they're gross, but they're pretty freaking cool, actually.
Kevin: Dang.
Codey: Have you have you had any earwig experience?
Kevin: Yeah, that, that,
Kevin: I mean, I see the, uh, in the area, I feel like I've seen them in person.
Kevin: I don't know the, we have so many bugs out here.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: I lose track of what we are, but what we have.
Kevin: But, um, uh, yeah, no, like nothing, uh, nothing direct other than.
Codey: Cool.
Kevin: Yeah, they do live in Georgia.
Kevin: Okay, I definitely have seen them around.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: So the next order is Plocoptera, which are the stone flies.
Codey: Plecoptera means braided wing, and that, um, is probably, they probably, uh, is in relation to the fact that their wings have a ton of veins.
Codey: Like it just seems like they have veins for days.
Codey: Like there's so many and they don't need that many things.
Codey: But they have them.
Codey: Um, and so like, but that's probably why they're named that.
Codey: Again, uh, these are a really great water quality indicator, and I think they're common name of stone flies because their larvae are often like if you flip a stone in a in a stream, um, they're often like clinging to the stone.
Codey: So, um, yeah, that's that's that's them.
Kevin: Huh.
Kevin: interesting little guy, little dudes.
Kevin: I'm just looking at what their larva look like.
Codey: Mhm, mhm.
Kevin: interesting.
Codey: Um, next group is Orthoptera, uh, which means straight wing.
Kevin: Huh.
Codey: I have no idea why they're called that.
Codey: So this includes crickets.
Kevin: To separate them from the gateway.
Codey: I'm screaming.
Kevin: Oh.
Codey: Oh, I'm gonna make a comment because I need to tell all of my friends that.
Codey: Oh my gosh.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: Thank you.
Kevin: This is why I'm here folks.
Codey: Thank you for that.
Kevin: This is all I can contribute.
Codey: Okay, so I can really think of anything specific to talk about Crickets Katy did's grasshoppers.
Codey: I mean, people know them as locusts, quote unquote, are also in this where they like, defoliate, um, like, they can be really big pests, blah, blah, blah.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: But I wanted to highlight here, instead, the way that they have what their metamorphosis is.
Codey: So, um, things like Plecoptera, um, and other, they have what they have is they have uh, incomplete metamorphosis that includes a, an egg, and then an aquatic, uh, There's a lar, larval stage, and then there's usually another stage, and then they're an adult.
Codey: But if something is hem metabolist and they have this kind of incomplete metaborphosis.
Codey: Basically the insect catches from the egg and it just kind of looks like a mini version of the adult, like a tiny, tiny version of the adult.
Codey: And, uh, insects have exoskeletons.
Codey: So they basically have their bones on the outside and they will grow and grow and grow, um, to, as they eat, and they will fill in that exoskeleton. And so when they start kind of butting up, like they're too chonky for their exoskeleton, they kind of just have to like form a new one.
Codey: So, this, uh, insects that have hem metabolism, um, will grow and grow and grow, and then they'll moult.
Codey: So they'll get rid of that exoskeleton, that like shell.
Codey: And then they grow and grow and grow and then they mould.
Codey: And they just do this over and over until they're at the adult stage and are sexually reproductive.
Codey: Um, Some of these stages, uh, these stages are called in-stars.
Codey: So, um, it's just kind of the name that we have for them.
Codey: How many of those stages, those in-stars, a certain species has.
Codey: It really depends on the species.
Codey: And for a lot of them, you can actually tell, um, what instar it is based on certain morphological characters.
Codey: Um, so for some, some groups that might have, uh, different types of metamorphosis, they might have like like caterpillars, for example, they have complete metamorphosis, but their, the caterpillar stage has instars.
Codey: And at each one, it's like, oh, I can tell that this is a 3rd instar of this caterpillar because it has this, these features, it looks like, has this colour.
Codey: It has this little horn thing, but it doesn't have these other horn things.
Codey: So sometimes for some groups, the instar is indicative of the, like how close they might be to being an adult.
Codey: Um, but sometimes with things like crickets and Katydids, I, I, I don't know.
Codey: They basically like look the same, the same moult, look the same moult, and then they might have like one stage before they become an adult where it's like, oh.
Codey: They look like they might be getting wings.
Kevin: Oh, oh, oh, oh.
Codey: So, yeah, it, um, I guess, uh, the other thing about this group about orthopterans, uh, is they use songs to attract mates, um, and they do different courting behaviour.
Codey: So we hear, you can often hear in the summer, uh, Katydids and grasshoppers and crickets.
Codey: Um, chirping, attracting mates, things like that.
Codey: Really cool.
Kevin: I, uh, these, uh, probably one of the closest ones to my heart.
Kevin: Um.
Codey: Oh, okay.
Kevin: Uh, yeah, to be because I, um, like, obviously as a kid, I can't tell you what specifically I was looking at.
Kevin: But back in California.
Kevin: Well, when I was young kid, I would play with bugs.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, grasshoppers were pretty common and there were
Kevin: uh,
Kevin: mess around with them or whatever.
Kevin: Uh, uh, ladybugs were pretty common out there too.
Kevin: Um, but yeah, uh, out here in Georgia, plenty of those too.
Kevin: Um, so pretty much my whole life.
Kevin: I know the the summer sound of.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, uh, I'm, and one of the memorable moments, um, one of the stupid kids stories, uh, on a dare.
Kevin: I ate a grasshopper live once.
Codey: Oh, I guess that's another thing I could have talked about is uh, what, what is called entomophagi or eating insects.
Codey: Um,
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: So you, eating insects as nutrition, um, for nutritional purposes is highly common, pretty much everywhere except for the United States and Europe.
Codey: Every other culture.
Kevin: Yeah, down in Mexico.
Kevin: We got the chocolate covered crickets down there.
Codey: Yeah, like it is, because they are an effective source of protein.
Kevin: Good.
Codey: And like a lot of these things will are reproduced so quickly and creates so many generations in a given amount of time that they can you can reliably grow enough, uh, yeah, sustainable.
Kevin: Yep.
Kevin: Sustainable.
Codey: Um, they use a lot less water than a cow to.
Codey: Um, and so people still get yucked out about it, but there are some, um, some people are starting to like, uh, feed it in where it's like, oh, here's cricket powder.
Kevin: Yep.
Codey: So this is powder, like here, yeah, cricket chips or like here is a flower that is made from crickets or, you know, something like that.
Kevin: Yep, here's your cricket chips.
Kevin: Hmm.
Codey: Like,
Kevin: They're crunchy.
Codey: They're.
Codey: Um, and a couple of times at a couple of events, we've like a couple of uh, insect conferences and whatever, like people will bring like, oh, I made this guacamole that has ants in it, like, do you want to try it?
Codey: And like, it really doesn't change the flavour.
Codey: It just adds protein.
Codey: So it's it's one of those things, um, and and insects are a part of, um, uh, insects or as a protein have been used for like pet food a lot of the time.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Like some dog foods might include insect proteins or something.
Codey: Um, but it's something people shouldn't be as yucked out about because it's actually pretty abundant and I know you'd have to eat like a lot for it to be, but something's pretty abundant.
Codey: Pretty cool.
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Codey: Give it a try if you can.
Kevin: Yeah, I, I did it live, so, um, you don't have to go that far.
Codey: Um,
Codey: So so, Live and Raw was a choice, but...
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, yeah, um, it, believe it or not, it didn't taste that bad, but I'm, uh.
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: I mean, they don't, you, you, people assume that they're going to be, like, you're going to be gagging and like throwing up and they're not.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: It's not that bad.
Kevin: It's, it's, it's, it's mostly texture, but it's a little bit like what.
Codey: It's really not that bad.
Kevin: Um, here I am, my gourmet review.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, uh, Oh yeah, no, I mean, I think that's cool and, you know, sustainability.
Kevin: for eating the crickets.
Kevin: But, um, yeah, uh, one more thing before we move on from grasshoppers.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: I forgot 11 other reason that uh, the uh, so close to my heart.
Kevin: Uh, okay, this is a stretch.
Kevin: tangent, huh?
Codey: Okay, okay.
Kevin: There is, or once, I guess he passed away, sadly, not too long ago.
Kevin: Um, there was a comedian.
Kevin: His name is Jess Speedy.
Kevin: He was from Mexico.
Kevin: He is a Hispanic Latino icon of pop culture.
Codey: Okay.
Kevin: Um, he did all sorts of sitcoms and comedy shows and and just, uh, like, I'm trying to think of an equivalent, like, like the level of Robin Williams as comedic like fame.
Codey: Oh, wow, that is, that's high praise.
Kevin: But like also having a show as popular as like, I love Lucy or the Flintstones, like, yeah, the man was up there.
Codey: Hang.
Kevin: he like he
Kevin: Yeah, he is a top tier icon of Hispanic culture and comedy.
Codey: Okay.
Kevin: Anyways, um, I bring it up because one of his, uh, his shows, his characters, personas was called a chapel in Colorado.
Kevin: Uh, for people who don't know Spanish, chapeline means uh, grasshopper, and uh, Colorado just means red.
Codey: Mm.
Kevin: Um, so, uh, I'm sending you a picture in Slack, uh, probably should do it in a thread.
Kevin: But, um, uh, he dressed, uh, he just had this very comical over the top, uh, outfit, of a, of a, of a kind of bug man, no mask.
Codey: Oh my gosh.
Kevin: Uh, and he, and he wielded uh, a, a little plastic mount as his weapon. Um, and he was a super, uh, quote unquote superhero, but, uh, well, I'm going to get too deep into it, but yeah, it was just, it was comedy, just pure comedy.
Codey: Yeah, this is lovely.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, and so that character, Trapoline, Colorado, the the red and yellow that is costume and and the, the ham, like they're all, again, icons of uh, uh, Hispanic culture, like everyone knows what the, the yellow and red hammer.
Codey: So great.
Kevin: Yeah, so anyways, yeah, another blessing from the bugs from the Ortho Orthoptera.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: There we go, said it, right?
Kevin: Okay.
Kevin: All right, there.
Kevin: Thats it.
Kevin: There's my love for real top.
Codey: Okay.
Codey: Um, next, we have mantids.
Codey: So mantis, praying mantis, um, the order is Mantotia.
Codey: Um, I really don't have a lot to say about these because they're cool.
Codey: Like everyone knows they're cool.
Kevin: Everyone knows they're cool.
Codey: They're super charismatic.
Codey: I will say if you haven't had a chance to hold one, or if you have a chance to hold one.
Codey: Um, if you're trying to catch one that's wild, um, they will, they will like try and escape you a hot minute, like for a bit, but eventually they'll stop trying to escape and they'll just kind of like chill.
Codey: And at that point, like,
Codey: can just see how intelligent they are because they look at you and they like, they will follow your head, like your eyes, and they, like, you can see.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Um, They're tracking, like, and they're really good predators.
Kevin: They're tracking.
Kevin: They're like, they're processing.
Codey: Um, they got those raptorial forelegs, uh, and some of them have some crazy camouflage, like the orchid mantis.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Um, basically just is, has looks like an orchid.
Codey: Um, so this is, again, a gay bug because uh, it's not a straight bug, uh, straight straight wing.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Um, they have some pretty, um, pretty flamboyant, uh, Um, stuff that they can that they, how the waves they've evolved and they can just straight up look like an orchid to, um, lure in predators and ambush predators.
Kevin: I.
Codey: So.
Codey: An icon.
Kevin: They're so cool.
Kevin: I've seen a few around here.
Kevin: I've never grabbed them.
Kevin: I'm, I don't know why, like, I guess as an adult, like, I'm just so much more.
Kevin: uh,
Kevin: Hesitant, not like, I feel like, I don't want to harden the bug.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: I'm by big, meaty manhands, like I'm, I'm so, yeah, I don't know.
Kevin: I don't trust myself.
Kevin: I've never tried grabbing it, but man, they're so cool.
Kevin: I'll definitely stop and look at them when I see them.
Codey: One of my favourite online jokes or whatever is, um, I'm gonna probably butcher this, but it's like, I just want to kiss every bug, but they are so small and my lips are so strong.
Kevin: Exactly.
Codey: It's like, they're all so cool and I love them so much, but like, we have to love them from a distance.
Codey: Or else we're gonna hurt them.
Kevin: Oh, exactly.
Codey: Oh.
Kevin: But, yeah, no, man.
Kevin: I mean, how many like, no, that's not true.
Kevin: Many, many bugs have inspired many cool things as you talk about, but like, we got Scyther.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: That's that's an awesome Pokemon.
Codey: Oh man, Bug Pokemon is like we could do a whole greenhouse on Bug Pokemon.
Kevin: Well, when are you going to do the, uh, I, I don't know, it's not the tree of life, but the diagram, the maps did all, all the orders and all that.
Codey: Oh, yeah.
Kevin: When you're doing that for the Pokemon.
Codey: I could do that.
Codey: So, so yeah, what Kev is referring to is there's an entomology.
Codey: Well, so I don't even have to make one because there's already an article about it and it's hilarious because it's actually, it's someone that I know.
Kevin: Yeah, I'm sure it is.
Codey: So they wrote an article in the American Entomologist, which is, uh, like the one of the big journals from the Entomological Society of America.
Codey: And that is,
Kevin: Pokemon Japanese.
Codey: And that is more of a, um, American entomologist is more kind of like, it doesn't go into some really detailed, like, science that kind of talks about, uh, the people and and the side of it.
Codey: So I have a, that's another thing that my article about nerd eurgence is going to come into.
Codey: Um, talk, it can talk about things like, uh, my friend, uh, Dr. Rebecca Schmidt Jeffries wrote this article about how Pokemon is a perfect like gateway into insects.
Codey: And not only because it Pokemon was made because of insects, like because of collecting, because of entomology and like insect collections.
Kevin: Yeah, I was about to say.
Kevin: Let's not forget.
Codey: Um, but also just like how cool it is.
Codey: And then they basically mapped, they took all of the bug Pokemon and put them into orders, like, oh, you know, Scyther is clearly in order, Mantodia.
Codey: Um, and they kind of were like, here are the orders that are lesser known, or the ones that are like not represented that could be a really cool Pokemon.
Codey: So that's a whole article, that's a whole episode we could do where we talk about not only what Bug Pokemon exists.
Kevin: Yep.
Kevin: Yeah?
Codey: I could talk about that article that Dr. Schmidt Jeffries wrote.
Codey: Um, but also I could talk about possible Pokemon that could cover some of the lesser known orders.
Kevin: All right.
Codey: I could totally do that.
Kevin: Yeah, I mean, but buying it back to the mantises.
Kevin: Let's not forget Lurantis, which does the play on the orchid, Mantis, and does it backwards, and it's just, yep, it's just, oh, my, it's just a master class in design of things, in part because you're basing off a master class in, in real world bug design, I guess.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Lure.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Yeah, you really don't, they kind of did everything for you there.
Codey: You don't have to do much.
Kevin: Yeah, you're standing on the shoulder's a very tiny giant, but...
Codey: Yep.
Codey: Um, so the next order is man, uh, sorry, is phasmatodia, which are, are the walking sticks.
Kevin: Oh, I played that.
Codey: Um, I didn't, I didn't look at the name for this, but, uh, so the walking stick, stick insects.
Codey: Uh, also really super cool.
Codey: Don't really have any notes on this.
Codey: They look like stick.
Codey: That is their whole, they just.
Kevin: Yeah, that's, and...
Kevin: And what a good bit.
Kevin: That's all you need.
Codey: That, that's all you need.
Codey: And so these are so, these have such effective camouflage that there was actually, I should find that article, but I'll just, I'll just blurb it. There, like, was a, uh, a species of stick insect that was, that's huge that was just described like 4 years ago because they are so effective at camouflage that people had never seen this thing before or whatever.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, I heard about that.
Codey: And so super cool.
Codey: And they can get really big in the tropics.
Codey: So I, when I went to Costa Rica, um, to learn about flies. There, I, we found one there that was like half the length of my forearm.
Codey: Like it was just huge.
Kevin: Oh, that's sick.
Codey: And it was, it was doing its like kind of like bobbin thing.
Codey: like they kind of walk really stupid.
Codey: They're so cool though.
Codey: Um,
Kevin: That's.
Codey: Just absolutely cool.
Codey: And then you feel like a freaking badass whenever you find one because you're like, you literally saw this thing that is a stick.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Um,
Kevin: I mean, like, there's a lot of great camp, in the animal world, but a stick, like that, that's, that's up there.
Kevin: Like, no, nobody's gonna, hey, no animal will ever think about paying attention to a state.
Codey: I'm a look like stick.
Codey: Yeah, they're really cool.
Codey: Uh, so the next order.
Codey: So I put those 2 Mantodia and Phasmatodia, I put them in an order.
Codey: Uh, like in that, um, like I did those 2 consecutively because the next order is called Mantophasmatodia.
Codey: So these things are so named because they basically just look like a mix between a mantis and a walking stick.
Codey: Um, that's it.
Kevin: That's...
Codey: Like, that's why they're called that.
Codey: And their their common name is heel walkers because they, they don't walk on like their, um, they're Tarsus, Tarsi, like the, the footpads that they have, like that insects have, they don't walk on those.
Kevin: No.
Codey: They walk on like the bottom, the next leg segment up.
Codey: It's really weird.
Codey: They basically, so they're always like holding their feet up, basically.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Um,
Kevin: Yeah, it looks like they're walking on backwards feet.
Codey: Yeah exactly.
Kevin: That's that's interesting.
Codey: Like they have their they have their shoes on backwards or something.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Um, yeah, so that's that.
Codey: And I don't really have a lot to say about these.
Codey: They're only in Southern Africa.
Codey: So, but I just had to, had to talk about them.
Codey: had to blur them roll.
Kevin: Green chunky stick.
Codey: Okay, guys, we only have 3 more.
Codey: We're almost.
Codey: Um, so the next one, I'm I'm really excited about.
Codey: So M the Opera.
Kevin: No, much.
Codey: These are called web spinners.
Codey: The reason I am excited.
Codey: Okay, let me talk.
Codey: Okay, let me let me say more cool more about that.
Codey: So they have these, um, their front legs have these silk producing organs.
Codey: So they make like a, what is called a gallery or, but it's like basically a web of, um, like an underground area that they create like out of silk.
Codey: Um, so they spin webs out of their front legs, which is nuts.
Codey: They kind of look just like a long, thin beetle.
Codey: So the reason I'm so excited about, I'll get to, I'll say it now, is that when I went to Arizona to study Beatles, um, I caught one and I thought it was a Beatle.
Codey: Like I thought I was like, oh, this is a rove beetle, staphylinen, um, because it's just long and thin and has a really short, um, like you can see the abdominal segments.
Codey: Well, we'll talk about that in a later episode, what a rove beetle is.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: But I was like, this basically looks like Rove Beetle.
Codey: Cool.
Codey: And then like 2 days later, when we're in the lab and I'm like mounting a bunch of the stuff I have.
Codey: I'm like, wait, this is not a rove beetle.
Codey: This is a web spinner.
Codey: And like these are not everywhere.
Codey: Like, these are really difficult to find.
Codey: I have like multiple people at the at the workshop in Arizona were like, where the hell did you find this?
Codey: And I was like, I literally just flipped a log?
Codey: was like, oh, there's a staff and like grabbed it.
Codey: Didn't even, like, and we went back to that area.
Codey: There was nothing in that area, really.
Codey: I like flipped the one log that was in that whole area and found it and like we didn't see any others.
Codey: Um.
Kevin: Yeah, Cody's out here playing Pokemon for real.
Codey: I really am.
Codey: Um, so they're really cool.
Codey: And so that's and it's always cool.
Codey: So as an entomologist, I am like, you basically are trying to catch them all.
Codey: So I would like for my, I don't have a large personal collection.
Codey: Um, I pretty much only want a personal collection for myself for identification purposes.
Codey: So if I were to ever find another web spinner, for example, I can be like, well, let me look at the one that I have.
Codey: Uh, is this like that one, basically.
Codey: Like, is it really a web spinner?
Codey: Let me look at the diagnostic characteristics, whatever.
Codey: So I don't have a big personal collection.
Codey: But whenever I can, I want one of every order if I can get it.
Codey: And so this was a new order for me.
Codey: I was like, I had never seen one of these in person, and I caught it, and it's like, now I never have to catch another website.
Codey: So I basically get to like check that off my box.
Codey: Um,
Kevin: This is literally what L sounds like when he's talking about shiny hunting or whatever.
Codey: This is basically, like, I felt like it was shiny hunting because I was just like, oh, it's a beetle.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Oh my god, it's not happening. Like, oh, um, a little bit about most letters, they also exhibit maternal care, but they do, uh, live in these galleries, like in groups.
Codey: So they are not completely solitary.
Codey: They kind of like will make a gallery with some other females and live together.
Codey: Um, But the mothers will all the females will also pre-chew the food.
Codey: So they will like get leaves or whatever it is and they will chew it up and regurgitate that for their young.
Codey: So that is not something that's super common that we know of in insects.
Codey: Um, So, like in, uh, sorry, non-social insects.
Codey: So like, we know that uh, bees do that, for example, um, but they usually prepare that for their for their babies and then the babies just eat it.
Codey: But this is something that, like, I think the female actively does, which is nuts.
Codey: So, um, I feel like I feel so silly because I just got so excited about that.
Codey: And then I'm like, people are going to look at this and be like, yep, it's a bug.
Codey: But,
Kevin: Yeah, yeah.
Codey: Okay, uh, next we have Grillo Platodia.
Codey: So this is another mishmash of 2 of 2 groups.
Codey: People, the whoever named this was basically like, well, it looks like a cricket, uh, grilled, um, and a cockroach, blatted, like, so we're gonna call them grillo, blatted, grillo platonio.
Kevin: Okay.
Codey: So these are called the ice crawlers, Kevin, the ice crawlers, because these things live only in like either ice and snow or really deep caves that are pretty freaking cold. These things don't.
Kevin: I don't.
Kevin: I don't think bugs are supposed to be there, Brody.
Codey: Correct.
Codey: So these are one of the only, like, there is, so there's these.
Codey: There's also snow, what are called snow fleas, which are, um, winter stone flies that you can see on some snow in the eastern United States sometime, sometimes.
Codey: And then there's a couple other like things that I've seen in snowy areas, but most of the time, if you see an insect in the snow, you're like, you're not supposed to be in here, right?
Codey: Like this is not what they're, but this, that's our whole thing.
Codey: They're called ice crawlers.
Codey: They crawl on the ice.
Codey: I'm trying not to scream.
Codey: Um, they're so cool.
Codey: And so this is another Pokemon Shiny hunting situation where, um, so they're they're actually, they can be found near in Oregon.
Codey: like up in either Mount Hood, which is the, like, big, semi-active volcano, um, that people, it has, it's where timberline lodges, which is where the shining was, uh, was filmed.
Codey: Um, and stuff like that.
Codey: So, uh, we actually went and tried to find some of these last November because the big bug conference was in Portland, Oregon.
Codey: And so a bunch of us went there and I was like, guys, guys, guys.
Codey: Well, so there were like 3000 entomologists, but I like got a bunch of my friends together.
Codey: I was like, I'm gonna rent a car that can go up in the snow and we're gonna go look for these things.
Kevin: This was your, uh...
Codey: And I got like 5 people to come with me.
Codey: And yeah, we just made a day of it where we like went up.
Codey: I mean, it wasn't a whole day.
Codey: It was like a couple hours, like 5 hours or something.
Codey: Um,
Kevin: My, my company, we, we, we went out to a karaoke bar.
Codey: No, we didn't do that.
Codey: We didn't do that.
Codey: We, um, yeah, so we, uh, went up there.
Codey: We didn't find any, which is really sad, but I did find some beetle larvae that were just like, like 3 of them that were just on the ice and I sent a photo to my advisor and he was like, what the heck are those doing there?
Codey: And I'm like, I genuinely don't know what's going on here.
Codey: So he's like still trying to figure that out.
Codey: And then I, we did find, I found a crane fly up there.
Codey: So I found a, um, uh, a certain type of fly species, a supply family up there, and I gave that, like, we then went back to the conference, and I texted my friend who studies crane flies, and I was like, do you want this thing?
Codey: And she was like, yeah.
Codey: Um, I think I also caught a beetle, a ground beetle, and I also gave it to my friend who's a ground beetle.
Codey: So it's like so, it's just so fun because like you go and you find these things and you collect them and then you can be like, here, friend that studies ground beetle, here is this beetle that I found it, like 4000 feet elevation or...
Codey: It's like, what is this thing doing here?
Codey: Um,
Kevin: I'm sorry, it just I, I didn't know what a crane fly was or the name for it.
Codey: Oh, yeah, yeah.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Excuse me, the name for it because I see them every single day out here in summer.
Kevin: And here's the problem.
Kevin: I come from Savannah, Georgia, where we, those are mosquitoes down there.
Kevin: Uh-huh.
Codey: Yeah, so they're called they're called mosquito hawks.
Codey: is what people refer to them as.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: And I think people, like, there's people always say like, oh, they eat mosquitoes.
Codey: They do not.
Codey: Um, but they basically look like giant mosquitoes because they are, they're very large.
Kevin: No.
Kevin: They they are giant mosquitoes, yeah.
Codey: They have very, very like long legs.
Codey: Um, and we joke.
Codey: We have this really funny joke.
Codey: I mean, I should find the sticker and put it in the slack.
Codey: Um, so, uh, crane flies drop their legs, like, you look at them wrong and they just throw a leg on the ground.
Codey: Like they, it's just so uncommon.
Codey: Like to the point where one of my friends in one of my classes, insect diversity classes, got a crane fly and he was so proud.
Codey: And I was like, but you know that's not going to keep its legs, right?
Codey: Like by the end of the year when your collection is going to be like reviewed, it won't have its legs.
Codey: Um, and he was like, bet.
Codey: And so I bet him $20 and then halfway through the semester, I bet him $40.
Kevin: Oh.
Codey: Um, like I, like I, we upped it because I was like, this is not going to last.
Codey: Uh, and then at the end of the semester, uh, he, he got his thing great, like as he was submitting it, I was there and he opened the box and it still had all of its legs.
Codey: So, I paid, I gave him 40 bucks and uh, and we recorded it.
Kevin: Oh, okay.
Codey: My friend Lewis recorded it, me being like, Charles won the bet.
Kevin: Yeah, right?
Codey: Um, yeah. Oh, also, uh, we're not talking about crane flies in this episode, but we just mentioned them, so I'm going to talk about it.
Codey: Uh, there's a crane fly, um, that I found in Costa Rica that I found, um, and like mounted and everything.
Codey: And one of the crane fly experts was like, you did this really well.
Codey: And I was like, that's high pro-
Codey: going to carry that to my grave.
Codey: But that's probably a new genus.
Codey: Like, at a recent, yeah, at a recent conference, the dipterous society, so the group of people that study flies, like their little group, um, were having a meeting and they talked about kind of like what has been found from the bugs that were caught in fly school when we were there.
Kevin: Oh, well, that's that's crazy.
Codey: Um, and he was like, oh, and then there was this. And, um, this really cool crane fly that is probably a whole genus.
Codey: Um, and it had just never been seen before.
Codey: And before I mounted it.
Codey: Uh, the gentleman who was talking, who's named uh, Dr. Matt Breton, he's at North Carolina, um, NC State.
Codey: He took a photo of it.
Codey: So there's a photo of it in C2, like live, like it's still alive in that photo.
Codey: Um, so we not only have the photo, but we also have the specimen preserved in the Natural History Museum of Costa Rica, um, and they know where it was.
Codey: It was at this, um, uh, Soltis Centre, which is this, uh, research station for the Texas A&M, um, university.
Codey: So, They can continue looking for more if they so choose, which I think they're going back this year.
Kevin: Man.
Codey: So fingers crossed for them.
Kevin: It's so cool.
Kevin: I don't think I'll ever discover a genius.
Codey: Uh, I mean, so that's the thing is, I just like, a lot of these things, like this, the web spinner or that thing, like that crane fly, I just caught it and then just gave it to people that study the thing.
Codey: I'm like, here you go.
Codey: Um, and a lot of these groups are so little studied that it's possible.
Codey: Like it's not uncommon or would not be unheard of for it to be new.
Codey: Um, you just have to to look, basically.
Codey: But the tropics are also absolutely crazy because they have pretty consistent weather, um, other than being dry season and wet season or whatever, but like the temperature doesn't get crazy or, you know, whatever.
Codey: And so it's pretty consistent.
Codey: So you can have a, there's been a lot of speciation and a lot of development and evolution that has happened in those areas.
Codey: So bugs are super diverse there.
Codey: Um, yeah.
Codey: Period.
Codey: Okay, but we should probably finish.
Codey: So the last order is Blatodia, which is just the termites and the cockroaches.
Codey: So these used to be 2 separate things, but it has come, um, like within the last like 10 years.
Codey: Uh, DNA evidence has shown that termites and cockroaches.
Codey: Excuse me, are really, really closely related actually.
Codey: So, They're now in the same order, Grilliblatodia.
Codey: And I just wanted to mention here, like of the 4400 species of cockroach, only, excuse me, only like 30 of them are associated with human environments or human habitats, like our homes.
Codey: And of those, only like 3 of them are pests.
Codey: So cockroaches get a really bad rap because everyone just assumes like that they're going to infest your house or whatever.
Codey: Um, and and be a problem.
Kevin: Look.
Codey: And then like, I'm not saying that they aren't a problem.
Codey: That is it is a very big problem for people that do have a cockroach infestation.
Codey: But I'm just saying because one is a is a bad apple.
Codey: One cockroach, one cockroach species bad does not mean that the other 4400 and whatever are bad.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Um, they're still incredibly important for their environment.
Codey: Um, they're what is known as a detritivor.
Codey: So they actually, they, plus a lot of these groups are similar.
Codey: They break down organic material into forms that where like the nutrients, um, can be used and accessed really easily by other organic life, um, whether that be a tree or another, another thing eating the leaf litter or whatever, but they can, those nutrients, uh, you know, when it's a log, for example, those nutrients that are stuck, they're almost like stuck in there that needs to be broken down for it to be those nutrients to return and like be reused again.
Codey: And that's kind of what, that is what cockroaches and termites do.
Codey: So people be hating on them, but they're pretty freaking cool, actually.
Kevin: Yeah, I know, I get it, like, I think they're, well, uh, uh, well, speaking of roaches, like, I mean, term is, is the whole thing, but, um, like, roach is like, uh, I mean, yeah.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: The thing with roaches for me, it's more of a sign that bad decisions were made by the people in the area as opposed to the bugs, you know?
Codey: Yeah, I mean, it can be really hard.
Codey: They can be really hard to get rid of.
Codey: And it is, it's really, it's really difficult to, like, if someone has an infestation of anything, um, we have to be really careful not to blame the person who is in that situation because, so for example, like I have, you know, my house fairly clean, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Kevin: There is.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Sure.
Codey: But, you know, to give it, give ants like one millimetre, and then they'll take a mile, like give him an inch, they'll take a mile, you know.
Kevin: Yeah, okay.
Kevin: No.
Codey: And so, and then, and some of these things are so, so cockroaches, for example, you know, people joke that they would survive a nuclear blast, they probably would because they can like mish themselves into so, so flat and they can still survive.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: So sometimes like you could step on a cockroach and it's, it might still live because it can just, they are so effective at doing a living.
Codey: Um, And so it, you know, it's they're hard and then they're, they get into all these places, so it can be really difficult to eradicate them.
Codey: Um, So, yeah, it's hard.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Yeah, you know what?
Kevin: Yeah, I miss speaking, right?
Kevin: I don't want to blame anyone.
Kevin: Just, I've I've seen people.
Kevin: how can I put this, like, yeah, no, I'm getting into a personal story.
Kevin: I just dealt with someone who, I was tell, tell, they, there were, the answers were there.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: The steps were given, but they did not take them anyways, but that's a very specific thing.
Codey: So that's that's the thing.
Codey: There is, there is definitely, there are going to be times when it's like this person did not.
Codey: uh, did not dissuade, um, did not like have their environment be in such a way that they didn't like prevent this.
Codey: Like they, it was very effective.
Kevin: An effort was not made.
Kevin: Let's just say that.
Codey: Yeah, like maintaining.
Kevin: That's that's the thing, the effort, right?
Kevin: Like, yeah.
Codey: Like maintaining a clean environment is really important as a preventative measure from this type of infestation, but it is not going to 100% guarantee that you are not going to see a cockroach in your house.
Kevin: Yeah, no, no, I, I, of course, yeah, no, I, it happens.
Codey: Um,
Codey: Especially, yeah.
Kevin: Like, again, down here, Jordan, it happens.
Codey: Especially if you live in like an apartment complex because you might be doing everything, right?
Codey: But what if the person, the people in the, in like next to you, or they could be somewhere in the duct work or something like that, and then it's on the like landowners to be trying to eradicate those.
Kevin: No?
Kevin: Mm-hmm.
Codey: And if they don't take the proper steps, then you're going to be stuck with things.
Codey: And they can, um, that they can transmit disease, they can be a nuisance.
Codey: Like it's clearly not the best for them.
Codey: Though I will say, if you ever do keep cockroaches, because people keep them either as pets or as food sources for their reptiles and stuff like that, uh, their fras, also known as poop, is a really good fertiliser.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: So, and also, so people also do what's called blato composting.
Kevin: Hmm.
Kevin: I mean, sure.
Codey: People do it with worms as well, vermicomposting, where they will have either cockroaches or worms, like a compost heap or a compost bin that they just have cockroaches in.
Codey: And then so you basically like you eat an apple and then you put the core in there. And then they will eat it and break it down and then you can take their poop and use that as a fertiliser.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: So it is, it can be it can be effective.
Kevin: Sustainable.
Codey: Um, But definitely, like, it's hard.
Kevin: That's good stuff, yeah.
Kevin: Um.
Codey: It's hard to do that in like a small way because if you, we, especially in the United States, we generate a lot more food waste than could be eaten by a colony of roaches pretty quickly.
Codey: Like that Applecore is going to take like 2 weeks.
Codey: So if you ate like so many apples for a long time.
Codey: Suddenly you're just going to have a bin full of Apple cores and maybe some cockroaches in there too.
Codey: Um, but it's cool.
Codey: We could, we could, uh, we could use them for for good instead of hating on them.
Kevin: Also, shout outs to Wally, cockroach.
Codey: Yes, shout out to Wally with his with his cockroach buddy.
Codey: See, again, he, uh, drove over his cockroach, cockroach just planked, planked back and was like, I'm back.
Kevin: Yep.
Codey: Um, because yeah, they they really don't care.
Codey: They're just really effective at surviving.
Codey: Okay, so we're going to stop it there.
Codey: I'm so sorry, y'all.
Codey: I'm just yapping away, but you guys signed up for this.
Kevin: It's it's Cody month.
Kevin: You all knew it.
Codey: You signed up for this.
Codey: Um, so next time we're going to go over,
Codey: Oh, it's called Perineoptera.
Codey: So these are the non-polymeoptera, um, groups, and then we're going to go onto hollow metabolist.
Codey: So those, the, uh, the order hollow metabola, which just includes all of the insects that have complete metamorphosis, which is called hollow metabolism.
Codey: Um, So everything up until this point will have incomplete.
Codey: They'll either have, you know, uh, they won't have the, like, egg larva adult stage.
Codey: like you think of like a caterpillar.
Codey: Like that is a pure example of hollow metabolis, where they have an egg, a larva, and then that pupil stage, like a chrysalis, or some type of hardening where they kind of become a goo and then somehow become not goo.
Kevin: That, you know, that's impressive.
Codey: We still don't understand what's happening inside of pupil stage, like people casings.
Kevin: I'll give them that
Codey: There's just a lot going on in there.
Codey: And, and people have found that like someone proved there was like a kid in, uh, this was like a newer news story, where there was a kid, I want to say at least high school, but possibly younger, who, uh, proved that that butterflies remember things from their caterpillars like life.
Kevin: It's, yeah.
Kevin: That's, that's insane for Gildred.
Codey: So he basically like provided them with food resources, either blue or orange or something.
Codey: So like a blue one is like a sugar rich, like really good resource.
Codey: And the orange one was like an awful resource.
Codey: And so they basically, he basically trained like a bunch of caterpillars with this stuff.
Codey: And then when it became, when they closed and it moulted and became a butterfly, he then provided them with the, with just like blue and orange again or whatever.
Codey: And the butterflies went to the blue.
Codey: Like, they just immediately were like blue.
Codey: So,
Kevin: I'm sorry, that that that's insane.
Kevin: That's an insane concept, in fact, to begin with, but the fact that a kid discovered...
Codey: Yeah.
Codey: Mhm. There's a lot.
Kevin: There's many things going on there.
Codey: Yep.
Kevin: I, science.
Codey: There's a.
Codey: There's a lot of, there's actually a really good amount of articles or news stories or um, examples of kids do, kids having some really great, um, discoveries because it's just so, again, it's like such a,
Kevin: They're smaller.
Kevin: They can see the bugs closer.
Codey: Well, they also, if you if you haven't taught them fear yet, like to fear insects.
Codey: We all have, we all are initially like very curious.
Codey: We're only taught to fear something when your parents like, no, no, get away from that.
Codey: Or like, no, that's gross.
Codey: It's a bug.
Codey: Like, so until you have that experience, you still have that curiosity.
Codey: You still have that wonder.
Codey: And if that is not quashed, then you become an entomologist talking on a podcast, it's about.
Codey: But you could also, um, like, if you continue to look and ask questions and try and understand things. And, like, it's, there's just so much that could be done to still study, uh, in the study of insects, insect cognition, insect diversity, um, ways we can use them for our environment, ways that they are effective for our environment.
Codey: There's so much.
Codey: Um, and we need more funding for it.
Codey: Period.
Codey: End of story.
Codey: So, Really cool.
Kevin: Well, you know how we could get more funding?
Codey: What, people donating to Patreon?
Codey: don't know what the.
Kevin: No, I was gonna say, we could open up a shop, you see.
Codey: Oh.
Kevin: sell the bugs.
Codey: Oh my gosh, you're so right.
Kevin: To budgies.
Codey: You're so right.
Codey: Okay, so we're going to go into our main topic.
Codey: Thank you guys for bearing with us.
Codey: Okay, I'm going to keep apologising and everyone, like certain people who are listening are probably like, oh, she's done talking about bugs.
Kevin: Oh, Body and Bugs versus Kevin and Pocopia.
Codey: Name a better duo.
Codey: Um.
Codey: So yeah, Budgie's Bug Shop.
Codey: So this is a this is a game that is out on Steam, and I am blessed that it is also on Mac.
Codey: It's not just PC.
Codey: It's also Mac.
Codey: So I was able to play this on my laptop.
Codey: Very happy.
Codey: So, um, the blurb of the game is a short incremental game about catching bugs and running a shop filled with parakeets.
Codey: Upgrade equipment, purchase game breaking abilities, and maximise the profits of your budgie powered empire.
Codey: Um, I guess like before we start getting into gameplay and other features, did you, what are your thoughts about this game?
Kevin: Uh, okay, so 1st of all, the game's like what, 5 bucks USD?
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: So for reference, right?
Kevin: This is the level game we're talking about, not as bad because it's good.
Kevin: giving this thumbs up.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, but just just setting the expectations.
Kevin: Um, I 100% of it in like an afternoon because you can.
Kevin: Um, well, okay, how should I put, okay.
Kevin: Uh, it's a.
Codey: Did you actually, did you 100% it or did you just get hit credits?
Kevin: Oh no, I 100, I 100% of everything.
Codey: Okay, I was gonna see.
Kevin: Yeah, no, I got it all.
Codey: If I've got all the, I do not have all of these.
Codey: Wait, do I?
Codey: Oh, I'm looking at global achievements.
Kevin: If you.
Codey: I want to look at my achievement.
Kevin: If you hit credit, you probably.
Codey: Okay.
Kevin: Um, uh, but yeah, no, I mean, overall, like it's, I'm giving it thumbs up.
Kevin: I enjoyed it.
Kevin: I have many specific thoughts, but what are your overall thoughts?
Codey: Uh, similar.
Codey: Um, so like very positive.
Codey: The reviews are also overwhelmingly positive.
Codey: 96% of the reviews are positive reviews.
Codey: So, um, it's just a cute little game.
Codey: I mean, it also tells you, like, what it is, like out from the front.
Codey: It's like, this is a 2 hour experience, basically, but you can replay it if you want, like, very good replayability, I think.
Codey: Um, it's basically just number go big.
Codey: That's.
Kevin: It, it's, it's a cookie clicker.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: That's what it is.
Kevin: It's a cookie clicker.
Codey: Um,
Kevin: Uh, but yeah, okay.
Kevin: There there's 2 parts of the game.
Kevin: There is the bug shop where the birds are selling to other birds, all these bugs you caught.
Kevin: Um, that's just touches the cookie cooker.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: You sell more, you get money, you buy upgrades, you have more cashiers, more, well, inventory, whatever.
Kevin: It's a it's a cookie clip.
Kevin: go big.
Codey: Mhm.
Kevin: Um, apparently, I'm not a big fan of cookie clickers because I don't know, I just don't get the, the, number go big is fine, but just not always for me.
Kevin: Um, Oh, oh, gotta go back.
Codey: Oh my gosh, I don't have all I don't have all the achievements.
Codey: What the heck?
Kevin: Um, I wonder which one you're missing.
Kevin: I'm curious.
Kevin: Um.
Codey: Okay, I know what it is.
Kevin: Um, so, uh, so, you know, that's that's fine, right?
Kevin: Um, The other part, and this is why,
Kevin: the game works for me, um, because there is a 2nd portion of the bug patching that is, um, that is active gameplay, which is what I want for my games.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, and uh, yeah, let's uh, okay.
Kevin: Oh, it's been a minute since I played, but if I recall correctly, yeah.
Kevin: And the next goal, uh, when you start the game, you, you have just the basic little insect area where there's like ladybugs and grasshoppers and you basically draw a square and that drops a net onto this, onto this little field where these bugs are walking and hopping around.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, and you catch the bugs that are inside the net.
Kevin: It's fairly straightforward.
Kevin: Um, right?
Kevin: Different bugs, have different types of movements as they as they tend to do in the real world.
Kevin: Um, And and so that's kind of the basis for it.
Kevin: Um, uh, as is the cookie quickerish nature, um, you can upgrade the whole bug catching side of this game.
Kevin: You unlock many different environments with different types of bugs, and you also upgrade your bug patching abilities.
Kevin: Um, You can start uh, spotting other nets.
Kevin: Other nets will spawn from your nets when you drop them and they'll just shoot out to the sides.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, there, you can unlock different types of bugs that give you bonuses or more time on the clock. Um, because you have to do this bug catching segment in a couple of seconds, basically.
Codey: Mhm.
Kevin: Um, uh, and so on, um,
Codey: Net get net get bigger.
Kevin: and so forth, right?
Kevin: Net get bigger or more, or more net, no, no, that number get bigger.
Kevin: Um, and so, like, it's, okay, in the bug shop in in the shop part, right?
Codey: That number get bigger.
Kevin: Like it's literally number get bigger and and there's more birds going in, but it's all passive.
Kevin: It's all basically visual, right?
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: You get more upgrades, it looks prettier.
Kevin: You're doing more transactions.
Kevin: But the gameplay part of it.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: It's kind of insane with how far the upgrades go because you're like spawning like 4 nets at once and they'll each shoot out like 2 nets of their own and and just all sorts of nonsense.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: So, you go from, you know, trying to draw a square to catch every single bug that you can see in in a couple of seconds to just, randomly without thinking or looking, just drawing rectangles and and game happens and bug gets caught like, it's, it's wild.
Kevin: Um, uh, yeah.
Codey: Yep.
Kevin: Um, I, It is.
Codey: It's visually appealing, though.
Codey: Like it, it, the way that they visualised it, it was very, it tickles the brain in a good way.
Kevin: It does.
Kevin: Um, and oddly enough, like, while this is one of, I guess, the strengths, like the upgrade you feel, go up, um, It has, there's a small little complaint.
Kevin: I, well, not, there's a complaint I have about it.
Codey: Okay.
Kevin: In the beginning, when you're starting, you're catching these bugs, and of course, there's your bug next or whatever, and you see all the bugs, and you clearly get a good look at what you're catching, right?
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Like there's the lady bugs.
Kevin: There's the different types of of monarch butterflies or whatever.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: And then, you know, they're they're accurate bugs relatively speaking.
Kevin: Um, they look like a bug that's supposed to be real.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Towards the end, well, that there's some that aren't, but we'll get to that.
Kevin: But anyways, but towards the end.
Kevin: Here's the thing.
Kevin: Or at least the way I played it where I would tend to stockpile my money so I can get a good amount of upgrades at once. Um, Towards the end, I was not seeing the bugs I was catching, basically.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: I'm just spawning nets and just, they're just, it's just now a list.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Like, I don't even know what's in this level.
Kevin: I'm just dropping stuff and catching 100s of bugs and don't know what's going on.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, which is a shame because, like, I think that, again, they clearly put effort to, to, put a wide variety of bug species and whatnot, and, and it's kind of a shame that, uh, that didn't go a little further.
Kevin: But, um, but that is a, you know, it's a tough problem because, yeah, on one hand, they're, you're also getting better gameplay stuff.
Kevin: So, you know, I don't know what maybe the best way, there's a great way to balance that, but, uh, it is unfortunate where things get so chaotic, you can't even tell what's going on.
Codey: Hmm.
Codey: Yeah, I see that.
Codey: It does it becomes pretty all over the place.
Codey: Um, it can get pretty intense, but yeah, I can see that.
Codey: Valid criticism.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, I'm trying to think here.
Kevin: Um, because yeah, yeah, it's very straightforward or simplest gameplay.
Kevin: Um, yeah, I, I, do you have any thoughts on all this, Cody?
Codey: I mean, that's pretty much it.
Codey: So the gameplay is just click.
Codey: Click and drag to make a square, and you catch anything that's in that square.
Codey: Um, some things can be difficult to catch when you 1st start out and you have like a, your net is small and whatever.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Um, And then, yeah, your shop can expand.
Codey: Uh, you sell the bugs there, each one has a cost.
Codey: I don't even, the cost didn't really even do anything because also, I think when you catch more of them, you get, like, they become more.
Kevin: Yeah, well, there's, I think that's one of the, uh, some of the upgrades.
Kevin: Oh, you know what?
Kevin: I forgot.
Kevin: There's 2 kinds of upgrades.
Kevin: I should talk about that.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, Because, uh, there's your standard, get, save up money, unlock, you know, another register, unlock maybe another area.
Kevin: There is a skill tree system.
Kevin: Um, well, I say it's not a tree.
Kevin: It's like a panel.
Kevin: Um, and the currency is not money for those unlocks.
Kevin: The currency for that.
Kevin: is what they call cosmic Beatles.
Kevin: Um, this little magic or scarabs, cosmic scarabs.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: That what it was.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, and just this rainbow flying, uh, scarab beetle, uh, clearly from the, the, the gay wing bugs.
Kevin: Um, uh, just, uh, you, you, uh, and and when you catch them.
Kevin: Um, and their pattern is straightforward, but a little, they're fast, right?
Kevin: They just go on a straight line and bounce off surfaces.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, but they're fetched.
Kevin: But those Beatles, the more you catch them, the more upgrade you get off your little skill square panel thing.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, and that's a lot of the powerful gameplay upgrades, you know, getting more nets, getting bonus types of bugs.
Kevin: Um, all that stuff.
Kevin: So, um, that's when you can really start snowballing when you start catching more of these Beatles.
Kevin: Um, yeah, uh, and which is nice because again, it's not just the, you know, the transactions and the massive income going up.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: It's, you know, like again, that rewards your gameplay because when you start, you have to, you know, figure out the, get the timing right to catch these Beatles, you can get upgrades.
Kevin: So I appreciate that a little game.
Kevin: Number go up.
Kevin: Um, yeah, um, I, I, they have some fun effects that end up not making too much of a difference because of how crazy the upbridge go.
Kevin: Well, like some bugs will burrow under, you know, underground or see cover under leaves and stuff like that.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, but you get upgrades that specifically kind of combat that like it'll shake the ground and make the bugs pop out.
Kevin: Um, or shake them out of the bush or whatever.
Kevin: Um, so, you know, I, I think they, they made an effort to put a lot of variety and effort in that, but they, they, they kind of outdid themselves in in their arms race, um, and, and the upgrades kind of won.
Kevin: Um, yeah, but, um,
Codey: Yeah, I mean, that's pretty, it's pretty straightforward.
Codey: Like it's, it's, they have a bunch of different species, so it is cool.
Codey: A lot of the species are like real species, which is cool.
Codey: Um, and you can unlock these different, the locations really like, it's just a different screen.
Codey: Like, and and again, like you're saying, like, you can, they burrow.
Codey: There's an aquatic ground where they might go under the lily pads and then you can't get to them.
Codey: Um, but and then, and then I guess each location has different bugs.
Codey: So, uh, if you want to try and catch them all, which that is actually, I guess, one of the, um, achievements I'm missing, is I have not discovered every bug.
Kevin: Achievements.
Kevin: Mm, oh, you missed one.
Codey: Um, and then the other one.
Kevin: Interesting.
Codey: So another thing that you can do in the shop portion.
Codey: Well, I guess it's not in the shop portion, but like, you can buy what is called an intern.
Kevin: The intern.
Codey: It's probably, we should probably say higher.
Codey: Uh, you hire interns.
Codey: Um, and they basically, so like, if you hire an intern and you put them in the one of the meadows, for example, then when the next time you go to the meadow, that intern will be like running around trying to catch bugs.
Codey: Um, And they kind of help you, but they are awful.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: They're inept.
Codey: They're really not good.
Kevin: Again, the problem is they're so expensive because at that point, we already have a bunch of other upgrades that are way more effective than the interns.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, so, you know, if you got one at the start, I could see it helping maybe, but, uh, yeah, no, they're just, they're just, they're just a money hole to clear one of these payments.
Kevin: Um, it's fun.
Codey: So, you know.
Kevin: It's a shame because, um, they're funny looking too.
Kevin: You know, they've got little glasses, little parakeets with glasses running off a little net.
Codey: They're little nerds.
Kevin: Yeah.
Kevin: The game visually is very, very charming.
Kevin: Um, like you, you, you just look at one screenshot and you get what they're going for, just cute cartoony stuff.
Codey: Yes.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, uh,
Codey: But that's the other achievement I'm missing is there's, uh, an achievement called didn't lift a finger and it's let your interns do all of the work in a single round.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: So I did not get that yet, so I will do that.
Kevin: Um, I I will say, uh, okay, I guess one more thing I can think of.
Kevin: Um, towards the end, you start reaching these stages that, uh, just clearly all over the place, like you're going out in in clouds and space and nonsense and you start catching fictitious bugs like unicorn sticks, unless I, I, there are unicorn stags.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: I dont know of, but um...
Codey: I really would not be surprised if there was something called a unicorn stag.
Kevin: Probably, but as far, well, at least it's probably not, you know, rainbow unicorn coloured like in this game, if it is out there.
Kevin: Maybe there is.
Kevin: I could be.
Kevin: I be dead wrong in 20 years anyways.
Kevin: Uh, they'll find it.
Kevin: But anyways, yeah, they start putting like little magical, fun creatures, bugs.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: But again, this is towards the end.
Kevin: So this is the point where I'm not even seeing these bugs because I'm just click and all bug, all bugs get caught right away. Like, um, but, uh, it's fun they did that.
Kevin: Um, and the last, yeah, huh.
Codey: Uh oh, sorry, go for it.
Kevin: No, no, go ahead.
Codey: I was going to say the update.
Codey: B, b, b, b, b, b.
Codey: Um, there is a, uh, a scarab beetle called the Adelaide Unicorn Beetle.
Codey: Um, so there are stag beetles that have a unicorn in their common name.
Codey: So.
Kevin: Well, there you go.
Kevin: Um, uh, okay, the, okay, I'm not gonna, uh, stranger, it sounds, there's one thing I would consider a quote unquote spoiler, and I just, and obviously there's no story or anything here, but it's a thing, I think, if you play this game, and I do recommend, it's a fun way to kill, you know, in an afternoon, 5 bucks.
Codey: Yeah.
Kevin: Um, uh, the actually reaching the credits is a very fun experience.
Kevin: Um, I will not go into it.
Codey: Yes.
Kevin: It's it's one of the most fun, clever things they did in the game.
Kevin: Um, but and and fair enough, it's one of the final upgrades or things you'll unlock.
Kevin: Um, But just I, you know, I baited the hook.
Kevin: Go check it out to see what they do for the credits, but, um, It's a very fun play.
Codey: Mm-hmm.
Kevin: Um, yeah, no, that's that's it.
Kevin: That all I got.
Codey: Yep, I concur.
Codey: Uh, is is fun game.
Codey: I am trying to see if there's anything else that I wrote down here or that was it part of the thing?
Codey: Nope.
Codey: Oh, I guess they also say relaxing soundtrack with nostalgic mid 2000s aesthetics.
Codey: Um, I can't remember if I played with music on.
Kevin: Oh.
Codey: I often play my games without music, so.
Codey: Um, but I would not doubt it because it is very charming.
Codey: Okay, so that was the episode.
Codey: Thank you guys for hanging out, uh, and talking listening to us talk about mostly just about bug diversity and then throwing a bug game at the end of it.
Codey: Um,
Kevin: There you go.
Kevin: As as is the premise of the month.
Codey: Uh, Kev, is there anything um, that you would like to share with the audience?
Kevin: Uh, I'm super is, whatever.
Kevin: I'm not that interesting if you find me.
Codey: Yes, you are.
Kevin: I use this.
Kevin: My online presence isn't that interesting.
Kevin: Well, anyways, uh, I, I, that's all. Cody, you got anything?
Codey: Um, no, I'm also pretty much, uh, I can be found on the slack.
Codey: I'm kind of like not.
Codey: I'm phasing out a lot of my social media just because, um, I get sucked into it pretty heavily, but also as I start looking for gainful employment.
Codey: I think it'd probably be better if I don't have like a bunch of silly like things.
Codey: Actually, I should probably just make it private, actually, now that I'm thinking about it.
Codey: Um, But yes, you can find me, um, online just with my name anywhere, I kind of docks myself, uh, or in the Slack.
Codey: So, um, you can join the Slack by joining the Patreon, patreon.com slash GHS pod.
Codey: You not only get access to the Slack, but you also get access to the greenhouse episodes, which is kind of us talking about non-cottage horror things.
Codey: Um, so that would be where we should talk about Bug Pokemon.
Codey: Or, um, we've, I talked to Spencer about, um, God's, um, bug, what did you call, bug kaiju, bug kaiju.
Kevin: Mathra.
Codey: So big, like Godzilla style bugs that are, or yeah, Godzilla style bugs.
Codey: Um, talked about that.
Codey: Like, we also talk about other silly things.
Codey: For a few years, we talked about Eurovision, but we boycotted it this year.
Codey: Um, so you can find that all of that.
Codey: through the greenhouse through by going through the Patreon.
Codey: You can also find the podcast on Tumblr and Blue Sky at THS Pod.
Codey: And you can go to our website, harvestseason.club, to provide us with feedbacks, get links to the show notes, so you can see some of these images and articles that I posted, and get transcripts and things like that.
Codey: Um, yeah.
Codey: Kevin.
Kevin: for having me on.
Kevin: Uh, we got to do the greenhouse where I show Cody, Digimon, Bug, Digimon, don't you rank them?
Codey: Yes, I think that would also, like a tier list of bug Digimon.
Codey: I would do that.
Codey: I would do that so hard.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: Thatd be fun.
Codey: Because I'm like really not into Digimon.
Kevin: Oh.
Codey: Like I have not.
Kevin: No, that's fine.
Codey: Like, which is great.
Kevin: Most people aren't.
Kevin: That's a normal human response.
Codey: Like, well, so I guess I'm not saying, I'm not
Codey: not saying like I'm not into it.
Codey: Like, it sucks.
Codey: Like I'm saying like, I think, yes, correct.
Kevin: You're not familiar.
Codey: I'm unfamiliar with it because Pokemon was kind of the love child of my heart at that time.
Kevin: Well.
Kevin: Yeah, no, no.
Kevin: Well, here's the thing.
Kevin: As a Digimon fan, the depths, it's it's too much.
Kevin: It's too deep.
Kevin: They, like, they, unlike Pokemon, unlike Pokemon, the goal was not catch them all.
Codey: They delved too deep.
Kevin: It was just go more, go bigger.
Codey: Uh-huh.
Kevin: So the deaths of Digimon design are all over the place.
Kevin: I, I have legitimately no idea how many Digimon designs there out there, but, um, I'm sure they crossed 1000 like, possibly in the 2000s.
Kevin: It's like it's insane.
Kevin: Um, but anyways, we'll do that.
Codey: Absolutely nuts.
Codey: Yeah, that'd be fun.
Kevin: Um, that, that's gonna be fun because you get to, you get to see speaking on design philosophy and that's, that's an experience on its own.
Codey: That would be fun.
Codey: Hmm.
Kevin: You could, in fact, do a tier, not just bug, did you want? Eddie, did you want your list could, in fact, be done by how hot they are.
Kevin: Um, and and so you...
Codey: Oh, oh.
Codey: Oh, I think you might have lost me.
Kevin: No, that's that's that's part of the ploy.
Codey: I'm sorry.
Kevin: That's part of the point.
Codey: Yeah, I know, I'm not interested.
Kevin: Darn it, I was gonna spring it on you.
Codey: Um.
Codey: Dang it.
Codey: Like, oh, so we we show up, I show up and it's like, oh, I'm surprised we're ranking them by how hot they are.
Codey: We're not...
Kevin: Not by hotness, but you will, I'm just saying, no, we're not going to rank him by hotness, but I'm just saying, things can get humanoid often very quickly, did you want?
Codey: They, this is not a low punny area, okay?
Codey: Like, this is not, we're not doing it.
Kevin: Yeah.
Codey: So funny.
Kevin: Okay, we're good.
Codey: Well, thank you.
Kevin: All right.
Codey: So yeah, thanks listeners for listening and have a good harvest.
Kevin: Good harvest.
Theme Tune: The harvest season is created by Al McKinley, with support from our patrons, including our pro farmers, Kevin Stewart, and Elisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Micah the Brave, and our music is done by Nick Burgess.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website, harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed in this episode.
Kevin: All right, I have got to hop off.
Kevin: So, um,
Codey: Yeah. Thank you.
Codey: Sorry.
Codey: See, I was like, I gotta go fast.
Kevin: Yours, that's fine.
Kevin: That's fine, that's fine.
Codey: I gotta go fast.